README.md, before:

# `aiida-common-workflows`
The AiiDA common workflows project provides computational workflows, implemented in [AiiDA](https://www.aiida.net), to compute various material properties using any of the quantum engines that implement it.
The distinguishing feature is that the interfaces of the AiiDA common workflows are uniform, independent of the quantum engine that is used underneath to perform the material property simulations.
These common interfaces make it trivial to switch from quantum engine.
In addition to the common interface, the workflows provide input generators that automatically define the required inputs for a given task and desired computational precision.
For more information, please refer to the [online documentation](https://aiida-common-workflows.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).


## How to cite
If you use the workflow of this package, please cite the [original paper (10.1038/s41524-021-00594-6)](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-021-00594-6).
In addition, one should cite the quantum engines whose implementations are used.

Engine           | DOIs or URLs to be cited
---------------- | ----------------------------
ABINIT           | [10.1016/j.cpc.2016.04.003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2016.04.003) [10.1016/j.cpc.2019.107042](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2019.107042) [10.1063/1.5144261](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5144261)
BigDFT           | [10.1063/5.0004792](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0004792)
CASTEP           | [10.1524/zkri.220.5.567.65075](https://doi.org/10.1524/zkri.220.5.567.65075)
CP2K             | [10.1002/wcms.1159](https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.1159) [10.1063/5.0007045](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0007045)
FLEUR            | [https://www.flapw.de](https://www.flapw.de)
Gaussian         |
NWChem           | [10.1063/5.0004997](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0004997)
ORCA             | [10.1002/wcms.81](https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.81) [10.1002/wcms.1327](https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.1327)
Quantum ESPRESSO | [10.1088/0953-8984/21/39/395502](https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/21/39/395502) [10.1088/1361-648x/aa8f79](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-648x/aa8f79)
SIESTA           | [10.1063/5.0005077](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0005077) [10.1088/0953-8984/14/11/302](https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/14/11/302)
VASP             | [10.1103/physrevb.54.11169](https://doi.org/10.1103/physrevb.54.11169)  [10.1103/physrevb.59.1758](https://doi.org/10.1103/physrevb.59.1758)

Commit message:

Update reference with full volume/page number
This simplifies the life users who just want to copy/paste the textual reference.

Also, added a link on how to cite Gaussian.

README.md, after:

# `aiida-common-workflows`
The AiiDA common workflows project provides computational workflows, implemented in [AiiDA](https://www.aiida.net), to compute various material properties using any of the quantum engines that implement it.
The distinguishing feature is that the interfaces of the AiiDA common workflows are uniform, independent of the quantum engine that is used underneath to perform the material property simulations.
These common interfaces make it trivial to switch from quantum engine.
In addition to the common interface, the workflows provide input generators that automatically define the required inputs for a given task and desired computational precision.
For more information, please refer to the [online documentation](https://aiida-common-workflows.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).


## How to cite
If you use the workflow of this package, please cite the paper in which the work is presented:

> [S. P. Huber et al., npj Comput. Mater. 7, 136 (2021); doi:10.1038/s41524-021-00594-6](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-021-00594-6)

In addition, if you run the common workflows, please also cite the quantum engine(s) that you will use. We provide below a table of references for your convenience.

Engine           | DOIs or URLs to be cited
---------------- | ----------------------------
ABINIT           | [10.1016/j.cpc.2016.04.003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2016.04.003) [10.1016/j.cpc.2019.107042](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cpc.2019.107042) [10.1063/1.5144261](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5144261)
BigDFT           | [10.1063/5.0004792](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0004792)
CASTEP           | [10.1524/zkri.220.5.567.65075](https://doi.org/10.1524/zkri.220.5.567.65075)
CP2K             | [10.1002/wcms.1159](https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.1159) [10.1063/5.0007045](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0007045)
FLEUR            | [https://www.flapw.de](https://www.flapw.de)
Gaussian         | [see instructions here](https://gaussian.com/g09citation/)
NWChem           | [10.1063/5.0004997](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0004997)
ORCA             | [10.1002/wcms.81](https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.81) [10.1002/wcms.1327](https://doi.org/10.1002/wcms.1327)
Quantum ESPRESSO | [10.1088/0953-8984/21/39/395502](https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/21/39/395502) [10.1088/1361-648x/aa8f79](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-648x/aa8f79)
SIESTA           | [10.1063/5.0005077](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0005077) [10.1088/0953-8984/14/11/302](https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/14/11/302)
VASP             | [10.1103/physrevb.54.11169](https://doi.org/10.1103/physrevb.54.11169)  [10.1103/physrevb.59.1758](https://doi.org/10.1103/physrevb.59.1758)
